README.md, before:

# AI vs Human Essay Classification with Three Machine Learning Models

This project is a web application powered by streamlit serving as a frontend to allow users to manually enter essay text or upload a document in either `.pdf` or `.docx` file formats. Users can choose wich of the 6, pre-trained models to use in classifying their essay. The web application also features the classification of the essay from all 6 models at the same time, showing both their predictions and confidence scores.

## The 6 Models

**Machine Learning Models:**

* Support Vector Machine
* Decision Tree
* AdaBoost

**Deep Learning Models:**

* Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)
* Recurrent Neural Network (RNN)
* Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM)

## Requirements

> [!IMPORTANT]
> With the introduction of the `Model_Deep_Learning.ipynb` notebook, a Python version of 3.11.13 is **required** for both streamlit deployment *and* running the two Jupyter notebooks.

* Git (for cloning the repository)
* Python 3.11.13 with the `venv` module or `python-virtualenv` package for Linux
    * ***OR:***
* Anaconda/Miniconda

## Installation

1. `git clone` or download the repository
    * Cloning the repository:
        1. `cd` into a location you want to store the project file (i.e. `Documents` or `Downloads`)
        2. Run `git clone https://github.com/sangtern/cs4331-102-project-1.git`
    * Downloading the repository:
        1. Click on the green `Code` button located on the top right of the project file explorer-like window
        2. Click on the `Download ZIP` button at the bottom of the context menu
        3. Extract the contents of the `.zip` file to a desired location (i.e. `Documents` or `Downloads`)
2. Change into the project directory via:
    * `cd /path/to/cs4331-102-project-1/`
3. If you are using pure Python 3.11.13, refer to the [Python Virtual Environment subsection](#python-virtual-environment)
4. If you are using Anaconda or Miniconda, refer to the [Anaconda or Miniconda subsection](#anaconda-or-miniconda)

### Python Virtual Environment

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The installation steps below only works if you are using Python version 3.11.13. Please downgrade your Python version or use Anaconda/Miniconda and refer to the [Anaconda or Miniconda subsection](#anaconda-or-miniconda) for installation steps.

1. Ensure you are in the repository directory
2. Create a Python virtual environment in the project directory by running:
    * `python -m venv myenv`
    * You can substitute `myenv` with whatever name you desire, and remember it
3. Activate the virtual environment
    1. Remember the name you've chosen in Step 2.
    2. If you are on Windows using Powershell or Command Prompt, run:
        * `myenv/Scripts/activate.bat`
    3. If you are on Linux, macOS, or Windows using Git Bash, run:
        * `source myenv/bin/activate`
2. Install the required python packages by running:
    * `pip install -r requirements.txt`
3. Head over to the [Post-Installation subsection](#post-installation)

### Anaconda or Miniconda

1. Ensure you are in the repository directory
2. Create a conda environment by running:
    * `conda create -n myenv --file requirements_conda.txt`
    * You can substitute `myenv` with whatever name you desire, and remember it.
3. Activate the conda environment by running:
    * `conda activate myenv`
    * Subsitute `myenv` with the name you've chosen in Step 2.
3. Head over to the [Post-Installation subsection](#post-installation)

### Post-Installation

To deploy the web app on your local machine, run:

* `streamlit run app.py`

To use the two Jupyter notebooks, run:

* `jupyter lab`

Commit message:

feat(readme): add note to installation section on reading it before following it, remove mention of the models in the title

README.md, after:

# AI vs Human Essay Classification

This project is a web application powered by streamlit serving as a frontend to allow users to manually enter essay text or upload a document in either `.pdf` or `.docx` file formats. Users can choose wich of the 6, pre-trained models to use in classifying their essay. The web application also features the classification of the essay from all 6 models at the same time, showing both their predictions and confidence scores.

## The 6 Models

**Machine Learning Models:**

* Support Vector Machine
* Decision Tree
* AdaBoost

**Deep Learning Models:**

* Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)
* Recurrent Neural Network (RNN)
* Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM)

## Requirements

> [!IMPORTANT]
> With the introduction of the `Model_Deep_Learning.ipynb` notebook, a Python version of 3.11.13 is **required** for both streamlit deployment *and* running the two Jupyter notebooks.

* Git (for cloning the repository)
* Python 3.11.13 with the `venv` module or `python-virtualenv` package for Linux
    * ***OR:***
* Anaconda/Miniconda

## Installation

> [!NOTE]
> Please fully read the installation steps carefully before attempting to follow it.

1. `git clone` or download the repository
    * Cloning the repository:
        1. `cd` into a location you want to store the project file (i.e. `Documents` or `Downloads`)
        2. Run `git clone https://github.com/sangtern/cs4331-102-project-1.git`
    * Downloading the repository:
        1. Click on the green `Code` button located on the top right of the project file explorer-like window
        2. Click on the `Download ZIP` button at the bottom of the context menu
        3. Extract the contents of the `.zip` file to a desired location (i.e. `Documents` or `Downloads`)
2. Change into the project directory via:
    * `cd /path/to/cs4331-102-project-1/`
3. If you are using pure Python 3.11.13, refer to the [Python Virtual Environment subsection](#python-virtual-environment)
4. If you are using Anaconda or Miniconda, refer to the [Anaconda or Miniconda subsection](#anaconda-or-miniconda)

### Python Virtual Environment

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The installation steps below only works if you are using Python version 3.11.13. Please downgrade your Python version or use Anaconda/Miniconda and refer to the [Anaconda or Miniconda subsection](#anaconda-or-miniconda) for installation steps.

1. Ensure you are in the repository directory
2. Create a Python virtual environment in the project directory by running:
    * `python -m venv myenv`
    * You can substitute `myenv` with whatever name you desire, and remember it
3. Activate the virtual environment
    1. Remember the name you've chosen in Step 2.
    2. If you are on Windows using Powershell or Command Prompt, run:
        * `myenv/Scripts/activate.bat`
    3. If you are on Linux, macOS, or Windows using Git Bash, run:
        * `source myenv/bin/activate`
2. Install the required python packages by running:
    * `pip install -r requirements.txt`
3. Head over to the [Post-Installation subsection](#post-installation)

### Anaconda or Miniconda

1. Ensure you are in the repository directory
2. Create a conda environment by running:
    * `conda create -n myenv --file requirements_conda.txt`
    * You can substitute `myenv` with whatever name you desire, and remember it.
3. Activate the conda environment by running:
    * `conda activate myenv`
    * Subsitute `myenv` with the name you've chosen in Step 2.
3. Head over to the [Post-Installation subsection](#post-installation)

### Post-Installation

To deploy the web app on your local machine, run:

* `streamlit run app.py`

To use the two Jupyter notebooks, run:

* `jupyter lab`
